In the last video, we described what is
a deep L-layer neural network
and also talked
about the notation we use to
describe such networks.
In this video, you see how you can
perform forward propagation,
in a deep network.
As usual, let's first go over
what forward propagation will look like
for a single training example x,
and then later on we'll talk about
the vectorized version,
where you want to carry out
forward propagation
on the entire training set
at the same time.
But given a single training example x,
here's how you compute the
activations of the first layer.
So for this first layer,
you compute z1 equals
w1 times x plus b1.
So w1 and b1 are the parameters that
affect the activations in layer one.
This is layer one of the neural network,
and then you compute the activations
for that layer to be equal to g of z1.
The activation function g
depends on what layer you're at and
maybe what index set as the
activation function from layer one.
So if you do that, you've now computed
the activations for layer one.
How about layer two? Say that layer.
Well, you would then compute z2 equals
w2 a1 plus b2.
Then, so the activation of layer two is
the y matrix times the outputs of layer one.
So, it's that value,
plus the bias vector for layer two.
Then a2 equals the activation function
applied to z2.
Okay? So that's it for layer two,
and so on and so forth.
Until you get to the upper layer,
that's layer four.
Where you would have that z4 is equal
to the parameters for that layer times
the activations from the previous layer,
plus that bias vector.
Then similarly, a4 equals g of z4.
So, that's how you compute your
estimated output, y hat.
So, just one thing to notice,
x here is also equal to a0,
because the input feature vector x is
also the activations of layer zero.
So we scratch out x.
When I cross out x and put a0 here,
then all of these equations
basically look the same.
The general rule is that zl is equal to
wl times a of l minus 1 plus bl.
It's one there. And then,
the activations for that layer is
the activation function
applied to the values of z.
So, that's the general
forward propagation equation.
So, we've done all this for a
single training example.
How about for doing it in a vectorized way
for the whole training set at the same time?
The equations look quite similar as before.
For the first layer, you would
have capital Z1 equals
w1 times capital X plus b1.
Then, A1 equals g of Z1.
Bear in mind that X is equal to A0.
These are just the training examples
stacked in different columns.
You could take this, let me scratch out X,
they can put A0 there.
Then for the next layer, looks similar,
Z2 equals w2
A1 plus b2 and A2 equals g of Z2.
We're just taking these
vectors z or a and so on,
and stacking them up.
This is z vector for the
first training example,
z vector for the
second training example,
and so on, down to the
nth training example,
stacking these and columns
and calling this capital Z.
Similarly, for capital A,
just as capital X.
All the training examples are
column vectors stack left to right.
In this process, you end up with
y hat which is equal to g of Z4,
this is also equal to A4.
That's the predictions on all of your
training examples stacked horizontally.
So just to summarize on notation,
I'm going to modify this up here.
A notation allows us to replace lowercase z
and a with the uppercase counterparts,
is that already looks like a capital Z.
That gives you the vectorized version of
forward propagation that you carry out
on the entire training set at a time,
where A0 is X.
Now, if you look at this
implementation of vectorization,
it looks like that there is
going to be a For loop here.
So therefore l equals 1-4.
For L equals 1 through capital L. Then you
have to compute the activations for layer one,
then layer two, then for layer three,
and then the layer four.
So, seems that there is a For loop here.
I know that when implementing
neural networks,
we usually want to get rid of
explicit For loops.
But this is one place where I don't think
there's any way to implement this
without an explicit For loop.
So when implementing forward propagation,
it is perfectly okay to have a For loop
to compute the activations for layer one,
then layer two, then layer three,
then layer four.
No one knows, and I don't think
there is any way to do
this without a For loop that
goes from one to capital L,
from one through the total number of
layers in the neural network.
So, in this place, it's perfectly
okay to have an explicit For loop.
So, that's it for the notation
for deep neural networks,
as well as how to do forward propagation
in these networks.
If the pieces we've seen so far
looks a little bit familiar to you,
that's because what we're seeing is taking
a piece very similar to what you've seen in
the neural network with a single hidden
layer and just repeating that more times.
Now, it turns out that we implement
a deep neural network,
one of the ways to increase your
odds of having a bug-free implementation
is to think very systematic and
carefully about the matrix
dimensions you're working with.
So, when I'm trying to debug my own code,
I'll often pull a piece of paper,
and just think carefully through,
so the dimensions of the
matrix I'm working with.
Let's see how you could
do that in the next video.